at least 16 Palestinians have been
killed in overnight strikes in Gaza
City there follows an attack on almasi
in southern Gaza on Saturday that killed
at least 90 Palestinians people there
have described it as a horrific Massacre
many are reported to be still missing
under the rubble thousands of displaced
people were seeking shelter in alasi
since Israeli forces had designated the
area of so-called safe Zone let's go
live to T Abu who joins us from darala
in central Gaza so T bring us up to
speed with these latest early morning
and overnight strikes specifically on
Gaza City what more do what excuse me
what more do we
know yeah that's right NE when in fact
we what we do know is that at least 16
Palestinians have been reported killed
where more than 50 others were warned in
overnight strikes that targeted key
centers and aan areas in Gaza City IED
ongoing efforts being made by civil
defense crws in order to look for
survivors but there is a grim reality
there those operations are still ongoing
there while people are dehydrated and
hungry and while bombardment continue
continues in the north of this STP
intelligence operations are still
ongoing in the central areas of Gaz
especially with the surveillance of
drones that are continued to hover on
the vicinity of alaa Hospital alongside
with the over the sky of the uh Dar
balah town and the central areas of this
trip for more than 3 hours till now and
Eve
uh and of course you know it's a day
after the what's been described as a
massacre in al- maasi the death toll as
we know tck is uh at least 90 but there
are still many more people
missing yeah and this is the real
problem right now resulted from the
Israeli attack on alasi area that at
least that were're talking about dozens
of Palestinians have been buried
underground due to the Israeli
bombardment that had been widely
targeted alasi area we've been hearing
from eyewitnesses that the attack was
incredibly destructive that people are
still under the ground and now they
there is a sort of uh digging a process
in order to look for survivors but
basically what we've been hearing also
from the civil defense Crews is that
they are facing a clear and notable
difficulty in order to recover them due
to the lack of essential equipment and
basically they are afraid to be targeted
again especially that Israel has been
multiply targeted civil defense crews in
the areas that had witnessed different
sorts of Israeli bombardment and also
people there are experiencing a a very
disturbing psychological trauma resulted
from the attack they're afraid panicked
and dozens of them have have lost their
flimsy tensor due to the attack and
right now they are absolutely without
any proper shelter as they have been
told by the military that this place
would be safe for them but no longer is
available to be safe due to the wide
scale attacks that had been launched in
that area and potentially in the future
might take place again T many thanks for
the update tck Abu is in there in daral
in central Gaza and well let's bring in
ail byun she's a senior manager of
advocacy and campaigns for medical aid
for Palestinians she joins us from rala
very warm welcome to you um firstly your
reaction to the uh devastating attack on
alasi as we were saying there at least
90 people dead many more presumed
missing another example of high-powered
weapons being used in densely populated
areas what kind of reaction shall I give
when we wake up every morning on a
devastating news of Massacre we really
don't know how to react anymore how to
feel how to be
humans we keep uh every morning I wake
up really really worried about my
colleagues I just want to reach them by
phone to see that they're alive and then
I'm worried again about the story that
they will be sharing but the footage
that you will be seeing from Gaza are
really we are running out of wordss I
don't have any verbal reaction to say a
few days ago the UN Secretary General
described the plight of Palestinians in
Gaza is living as if they're in a a game
of cruel uh pinball being forced from
one location to another we've been
saying for many months now that Noah is
safe as an NGO with a team working and
living there what can you tell us about
the latest forced evacuation orders in
Gaza so when the evacuation start
started so it's a long nine months of
evacuation games isn't it so first of
all what our themes have been describing
in the past weeks is as if it's as
intense as the beginning of the war tens
of thousands of people are running to
Nowhere safe they are lacking basic
amenities they don't know where to go
there's no shelter there's no food
people are just in the street also when
we hear about an evacuation order we
know hospitals are also being evacuated
so our colleagues are also Des
describing images of people hold holding
their loved ones who are injured behind
their back and just walking to a no safe
place to know where to go to they know
wherever they go like we witnessed
yesterday they will be targeted so
people are literally just running in
panic hungry
injured deeply
traumatized and I don't think we have
witnessed this in recent history where
every week people are like mass number
of civilians are just asked to run from
a place to another and then targeting
them again I was sing um another media
Outlet like it's not like Ukraine where
there's a bus come comes in takes in
civilians to a safe place they just
receive leaflets or messages to run
where to run they don't know what would
happen to them they don't know people
can't even run they're hungry it's
summertime and what about the well I
suppose it's a deepening medical crisis
that appears to be getting worse to
worse on a daily basis has your
organization been able to provide any
health care
uh in the areas most recently
affected let me start with the
healthcare situation and then what we
have been trying to do so we all know
that a famine is setting in across Gaza
and the whole population is facing the
POS of risk of genocide in addition
Israel has been systematically
dismounting the Healthcare System more
than 460 attacks more than 105 more than
500 health workers have been killed
every hospital has been targeted you
know Palestinian doctors are either
displaced detained loved ones or
extremely overstretched with work and
many of them have been subjected to
torture during detention as hundreds
have been
detained and the number of Health work
workers killed is more than all health
workers killed in conflicts in 2021 and
2022 in addition to that the Israeli
total Siege means that we cannot get in
the right and adequate amount of uh
medical supplies a lot of medical
equipments have been denied access so
we're talking about not only dismantled
collapsed healthare system but doctors
are really working over the hours with
nothing literally with the very basic we
have we're talking about in injuries of
sharpen L which is the most severe type
of injuries what we're trying to do as
Medical Aid fans we're trying to get
medical missions inside Gaza Medical
Teams we're trying to get medical
equipment very rarely they are accepted
we're trying to get medications as well
but whatever we're trying to get in is
nearly dropping the ocean you're
speaking to us from rala in the occupied
West Bank a day of national strikes has
been declared there it seems largely
symbolic a show of real outrage at this
latest attack by Israel I just wonder
what the underlying message U people in
the occupied West Bank and indeed in
other countries in the region that are
also protesting the latest strike by
Israel are trying to send the Israeli
government as Palestinians we have never
f as helpless as we have been feeling
since the start of the Gaza War you know
in the West Bank we have more than 553
Palestinians killed since October
including 131 children Israel has been
raing every single town and city across
the West Bank since years but now what
we're feeling with the message we're
trying to do is we don't know how to
show solidarity to our own people in
Gaza we don't know what to do a strike
to go to I don't know a protest we are
really feeling angry frustrated helpless
in addition we are also under attack so
the message is trying to send our people
in Gaza that we don't know if we don't
go to work maybe we show them how how in
pain we are if we don't go to our shops
if we don't open it's like sending a
helpless message that we're there that
we suffer as well all right Asel byun
for medical aid for Palestinians thank
you for joining us on
Aluma thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler